Add rl extension (#44)
cda-tum/MQTPredictor: README.md

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Lint](https://github.com/cda-tum/MQTPredictor/actions/workflows/linter.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cda-tum/MQTPredictor/actions/workflows/linter.yml)
[![CodeCov](https://github.com/cda-tum/MQTPredictor/actions/workflows/coverage.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cda-tum/MQTPredictor/actions/workflows/coverage.yml)
[![Deploy to PyPI](https://github.com/cda-tum/MQTPredictor/actions/workflows/deploy.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/cda-tum/MQTPredictor/actions/workflows/deploy.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/cda-tum/MQTPredictor/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=ZL5js1wjrB)](https://codecov.io/gh/cda-tum/MQTPredictor)

# MQT Predictor: Automatic Prediction of Good Compilation Paths

MQT Predictor is a framework suggesting a compilation options to use for an arbitrary quantum circuit according to the user's needs.

> To this end, we provide two models prediction good compilation options and returning the accordingly compiled quantum circuit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To this end, we provide two models for predicting good compilation options and returning the accordingly compiled quantum circuit.
```

- all other trained algorithms, and
- the possibility to adjust and customize the whole training data generation process, e.g., to add training data, compilation options, or adapt the evaluation function.

## Reinforcement Learning Model (referred to as "RL")

In this work, we take advantage of decades of classical compiler optimization and propose a
reinforcement learning framework for developing optimized quantum circuit compilation flows.
Through distinct constraints and a unifying interface, the framework supports the combination of techniques
from different compilers and optimization tools in a single compilation flow.
The compilation process is modelled as a Markov Decision Process:

![](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cda-tum/mqtpredictor/main/img/mdp.png)

In this implementation, compilation passes from both IBM's Qiskit and Quantinuum's TKET are utilized for the RL training
of the optimized compiler.
We trained one RL model for each of the three optimization criteria of expected fidelity, minimal critical depth, and
maximal parallelism.

# Usage of MQT Predictor

First, the package must be installed:

```console
(venv) $ pip install mqt.predictor
```

> Now a prediction can be made for any Qiskit::QuantumCircuit object or qasm file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now a prediction can be made for any `qiskit.QuantumCircuit` object or `qasm` file:
```

Author: Done.

```python
from mqt.predictor.driver import compile

compiled_qc_ML, predicted_best_device_ML = compile("qasm_file_path", model="ML")
compiled_qc_RL, predicted_best_device_RL = compile(
    "qasm_file_path", model="RL", opt_objective="fidelity"
)
```

In the RL model, the `opt_objective` options are `fidelity`, `critical_depth`, and `parallelism`.

# Examination of all seven trained classifiers of the ML model

> To play around with all the examined models, please use the `notebooks/mqt_predictor.ipynb` Jupyter notebook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To play around with all the examined models, please use the `notebooks/ml/evaluation.ipynb` Jupyter notebook.
```

Author: Done.

```
.
├── notebooks/
│ ├── ml/
│ │ ├── ...
│ └── rl/
│     └── ...

> ├── src/
> │ ├── mqt/
> │ └── predictor/
> │     ├── calibration_files/
> │     ├── ml/
> │     │ └── training_data/
> │     │     ├── trained_model
> │     │     ├── training_circuits
> │     │     ├── training_circuits_compiled
> │     │     └── training_data_aggregated
> │     └── rl/
> │          └── training_data/
> │              ├── trained_model
> │              └── training_circuits

Reviewer: ```suggestion
├── src/
│ ├── mqt/
│   └── predictor/
│     ├── calibration_files/
│     ├── ml/
│     │ └── training_data/
│     │     ├── trained_model
│     │     ├── training_circuits
│     │     ├── training_circuits_compiled
│     │     └── training_data_aggregated
│     └── rl/
│          └── training_data/
│              ├── trained_model
│              └── training_circuits
```

Author: Done.

└── tests
    ├── ml/
    └── rl/
```

# References

> In case you are using MQT Predictor with the ML model in your work, we would be thankful if you referred to it by citing the following publication:

Reviewer: note for later: add arXiv reference to new paper.
